---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /python/simple-games/number-guessing/use-variables
---

# Use Variables

In the Number Guessing game, the following variables will play a crucial role in the game's functionality and logic:

- **`number_to_guess`:**
  - **Role:** This variable holds the random number generated by the computer that the user is trying to guess. It is set at the start of the game and remains constant throughout a single game session.
  - **Necessity:** The `number_to_guess` is essential as the target for the game. Without it, there would be no set goal or answer for the user to aim for, and the game would lack structure and purpose.

- **`guess`:**
  - **Role:** The `guess` variable stores the user's current guess, which is inputted each time the game prompts for a guess. It's updated with each new input from the user and is used to compare against the `number_to_guess`.
  - **Necessity:** The `guess` variable is needed to capture and hold the user's input. It allows the program to evaluate whether the user's input is too high, too low, or correct. Without this variable, the program wouldn't be able to progress or provide feedback based on the user's attempts.

- **`number_of_guesses`:**
  - **Role:** This variable acts as a counter, tracking the total number of guesses the user has made during the current game. It increments by one each time the users tries to guess the number.
  - **Necessity:** The `number_of_guesses` variable is crucial for informing the user how many attempts they've made to guess the right number. It enhances the game's interactivity and feedback mechanism, allowing users to understand their performance. Additionally, it can be used for further enhancements, such as limiting the number of attempts or scoring the user based on efficiency.

## Hands-On Coding

1. Remove the `pass` statement from the `guess_number` function. It was a temporary placeholder that you'll now replace with actual code.
2. In Python, you can generate random numbers using the `random` module, which you've already imported. The function `random.randint(a, b)` returns a random integer N such that `a <= N <= b`. For the number guessing game, you'll want to generate a number between 1 and 100. Inside the `guess_number` function, create a variable called `number_to_guess` and assign it a random integer between 1 and 100, inclusive by writing the following line of code:
    ```python
    number_to_guess = random.randint(1, 100)
    ```
3. Immediately after generating the random number, initialize a variable to store the user's guess. Initially, you don't know the user's guess, so you'll set it to `None`. In Python, `None` represents the absence of a value:
    ```python
    guess = None
    ```
4. You also want to keep track of how many guesses the player makes. Initialize a variable called `number_of_guesses` to 0:
    ```python
    number_of_guesses = 0
    ```
    After adding the random number generation and variable initializations, the `number-guessing.py` file should look like this:
    ```python
    import random

    def guess_number():
        number_to_guess = random.randint(1, 100)
        guess = None
        number_of_guesses = 0

    guess_number()
   ```
1. Save your changes by pressing `Ctrl + S` (Windows) or `Cmd + S` (macOS).


By generating a random number and initializing variables for the guess and guess count, you've laid the foundation for the game's logic. The random number introduces the element of unpredictability necessary for the game, while the initialized variables prepare your code for tracking user input and guesses. You're now ready to build upon this structure to create the interactive parts of the game.